Vulnerabilities in this category aim to determine the status of ports. SYN scanning is the most common attack in this category with many advantages and few drawbacks. The adversary can also tamper with flags during ping and other network transmitted flags. Port scanning can also reveal the firewall status. UDP scanning is also used through ICMP packages to determine the status ports. And TCP RST packages may be transmitted that can terminate the TCP connection.
In this cluster of attacks deal with password hacking. The adversary may try to acquire sensitive data which is protected by a finite secret value, by using trial and error to exhaustively explore all possible secret values, brute force attacks, uisng server-side executables which can check hardcoded passwords, deciphering encryption mechanisms like magnetics strip cards, searching database tables where password hashes are stored, password spraying attacks and credential stuffing attacks and bypassing the Kerberos authentication system.
CVES in this category deal buffer overflow. Buffer overflow targets improper or missing bounds checking buffer operations injected by malicious content from the adversary. Buffer overflow can be caused in many ways like modifying environmental variables that the attacker has no authority to, string manipulation, symbolic link manipulation, message communication, jpeg files, mp3 files, binary resources, dll files. Buffer overflow may lead to system crash or arbitrary code execution.
These kind of attacks are based on network trafficking. An adversary can exploit cache memory, udp datagrams, domain name resolution, ICMP packages. The purpose of the attack can be to deny ip packets, route misconfiguration, to retrieve the network topology of the target or even to deny services the victims tries to access.
These type of attacks include injections. The purpose of the injection is to make the user execute a command that can lead arbitrary code execution and information disclosure. Injection can be performed in many ways, from a web application to make code executed from a web server or spidering, php or css flaws, sql injections, flash attacks, media content that can fool a user in pressing it.
This kind of attacks involve hardware and resource manipulation, like convincing a user to request a resource from an unintended location. Or getting unauthorized access to physical parts by installing malicious hardware or even during system maintenance. In that way an adversary can gain remote access to the physical machine. An adversary may look like a trusted third party to even suggest malicious versions of a resource
This cluster deals with role playing. an adversary may pretend to be some other person in interaction, this is called principal spoofing. Phising techniques through social media and pretexting behavior, where the adversary through messages tries to manipulate the target in performing the adversary’s interests.
These type of attacks include injections to web applications. The purpose of the injection is to make the user execute a command that can lead arbitrary code execution and information disclosure. Injection can be performed in many ways, for example by adding parameters to http requests from a web application, to make code executed from a web server or spidering, php or css flaws. Or even flash attacks, which are malware media content that can fool a user in pressing it.
This kind of attacks aims to intervene in datastreams and retrieve sensitive information. For example observing network trafficking, or intervening in message during message broadcast. Or even RFID signals coming from rfid chips. Techniques have been developed for targeting satellite using a rogue uplink station to disrupt the intended transmission or even radio signals.
This category of attacks deals with character encoding and string manipulation. The adversary may utilize a repeating of the encoding process for a set of characters. This can allow the adversary to bypass filters. An attacker can further alter url characters or input forms. Also An adversary exploits a cryptographic weakness in the signature verification algorithm.
